Let's work on the login next
and of course, also feel free to pause the video at this point and try it on your own first because the
general flow is pretty similar to signing users up.
So here's your chance to pause the video and thereafter, we'll do it together. Were you successful?
Let's add login together. For that, first step is to have a look at the official docs and there at sign
in with e-mail and password to find out what the right URL is. It's this URL which is pretty
similar to the last one but this segment here actually differs.
If you directly compare it, that here we're sending a request to sign up new user in the end
and down there we're sending a request to verify password. So let's copy that URL, the data you
attach as a body is the exact same,
it also should be a post request with a JSON data and the data you get back is also almost exactly
the same,
there's just one extra field which won't be important for us though.
So now we can go again to the auth.dart file and in there, add another method which of course will also
yield a future which then eventually will yield nothing
and that's the login method.
Now since you need to send the same data, it makes sense to also accept password and e-mail here as inputs
and add the async keyword to use async await and then here, you can basically copy the code from up there.
The only difference is the URL and there as I mentioned, this one segment here, verify password
instead of sign up new user,
so let me add that there. The rest is the same,
your key here obviously is the same
and therefore, this should work,
this is all because we're attaching the same data. Now hence
and that's of course optional, if you didn't do that,
that's ok, since we have pretty much the same code,
we can of course add a new method above or below that one, doesn't matter,
ordering doesn't matter here which actually returns a future which we could name authenticate,
_authenticate because it should only be called from inside that file, have the async keyword there as well
and what I expect here is my e-mail and my password and then also, my let's say URL's segment,
so that one thing that actually changes and that in this method here, we could have our logic here, let's
copy that into there and we replace that one segment with string interpolation and use the URL segment
which is this dynamically passed in value here to send the request to the right URL and other
than that,
this should just work and of course here, I can also print json.decode response body to see whether
it really works.
So now we can use _authenticate and call that from inside sign up and login.
So here I can now just call authenticate and forward the e-mail and the password
and set up that special segment here at the end which for signing up of course is sign up new user. So I
would pass this as a third argument here,
sign up new user,
that's the segment and for login, we do the same but our segment now is verify password, so we pass
this
and now we can also delete all that code here.
Hence we have leaner sign up and login function, they do the same,
only the path to which this gets sent differs. So with that, we're almost there.
One thing I want to do though I want to return the calls to authenticate because authenticate will return
a future which yields nothing because we await in there and we are using async await, so this returns
a future and I want to return this future because this is the future which actually wraps our HTTP request
and waits for it to complete.
So in order to have our loading spinner work correctly, we want to return the future which actually does
the work. Without return,
we would also return a future but this wouldn't wait for the future of authenticate to do its job,
this only happens if we return this future instead of the autogenerated one which we would get
in this method because the future returned by authenticate is the future that awaits and that takes a
bit longer.
So let's make sure we return authenticate in both sign up and login
and with that, we should be good to go and use that. Now
I just got an error up there because of course here I'm using const but this is no longer const,
we have the dynamic URL segment in there.
So it's a runtime constant, not a compilation time constant,
hence we should use final instead of const here
and with that, this all works
and now we can start using our newly added login method. For that, let's go back to the AuthScreen and
there in the login branch of this if statement, we can awaits provider of and connect that to the
nearest auth object, context with listen set to false of course
and here I'll call login and forward the exact same data I have in there, authData e-mail and authData
password,
so it's pretty similar but sends the login request. And we can also see whether that works, if we go back
and we go to login instead,
I still have my credentials entered here so let me press login with this,
let's see,
looks pretty good,
got back a response and this indicates that this indeed worked and we did login. So we're able to login,
before we now continue and change the screen we're showing,
let's make sure we handle errors because right now for example if I would try to sign up again with
the same e-mail address, you see I actually get an error here but it would be nice to not just print it
here but to actually show that on the screen to the user, give the user an idea that something went wrong.
So error handling is the next thing we'll do.